Doctoral Student in Design and Analysis of Human-AI Systems Sprachauswahl FAQ de Deutsch English Stellenportal chevron_left Übersicht chevron_left Übersicht Doctoral Student in Design and Analysis of Human-AI Systems 100%, Zurich, fixed-term print Drucken The Decision Sciences and Analytics group, led by Prof. Tu Ni at ETH Zürich is seeking a doctoral student to study the design and analysis of human-AI systems. This position focuses on the development of AI systems with an emphasis on understanding and reshaping the role of human. The study context is broad, such as AI for clinical or legal decisions, AI for learning and education, etc. The research is mainly theoretical, but will be related to empirical study like field/lab experiments when necessary. Job description Analyze AI systems where the decision is often high-stake or with long-term impact Design AI systems that lead to efficient and reliable outcomes Write high-quality papers and publish on top-tier OM journals Work with external organizations to evaluate the methods if needed In addition to research activities, they will contribute to lab responsibilities (e.g. teaching, advising master thesis) Profile Hold (or will have completed at the time of appointment) a Master’s degree in applied mathematics, economics, operations, or a closely related field Excellent academic records and is motivated to produce high-quality, policy-relevant research Have excellent analytical and modeling skills: optimization, mechanism design, etc Have excellent verbal and written communication skills Have industrial experience in AI deployment is a plus Workplace Workplace We offer The starting date is negotiable, but hopefully in six months The position is initially offered for 18 months, with the prospect of extension for four- to five-year duration of the doctorate, subject to satisfactory progress We offer the opportunity to pursue a high-quality PhD at a renowned institution and to work in a dynamic and collaborative research environment Gross salary will be in accordance with the regulatons of ETH Zurich chevron_right Working, teaching and research at ETH Zurich We value diversity and sustainability In line with our values , ETH Zurich encourages an inclusive culture. We promote equality of opportunity, value diversity and nurture a working and learning environment in which the rights and dignity of all our staff and students are respected. Visit our Equal Opportunities and Diversity website to find out how we ensure a fair and open environment that allows everyone to grow and flourish. Sustainability is a core value for us – we are consistently working towards a climate-neutral future . Curious? So are we. We look forward to receiving your online application with the following documents : A letter of motivation that includes an explanation why you are interested in doing a PhD and fit for the position (within one page) A resume/CV Complete academic record with undergraduate and graduate courses and grades Arrange at least two references and provide the contact information Further information about our Department can be found on our Website . Questions regarding the position should be directed to Tu Ni, tunitu@ethz.ch (no applications or unsolicited outreach). Please note that we exclusively accept applications submitted through our online application portal. Applications via email or postal services will not be considered. About ETH Zürich ETH Zurich is one of the world’s leading universities specialising in science and technology. We are renowned for our excellent education, cutting-edge fundamental research and direct transfer of new knowledge into society. Over 30,000 people from more than 120 countries find our university to be a place that promotes independent thinking and an environment that inspires excellence. Located in the heart of Europe, yet forging connections all over the world, we work together to develop solutions for the global challenges of today and tomorrow. Curious? So are we. We look forward to receiving your online application with the following documents : A letter of motivation that includes an explanation why you are interested in doing a PhD and fit for the position (within one page) A resume/CV Complete academic record with undergraduate and graduate courses and grades Arrange at least two references and provide the contact information Further information about our Department can be found on our Website . Questions regarding the position should be directed to Tu Ni, tunitu@ethz.ch (no applications or unsolicited outreach). Please note that we exclusively accept applications submitted through our online application portal. Applications via email or postal services will not be considered. Apply online now About ETH Zürich ETH Zurich is one of the world’s leading universities specialising in science and technology. We are renowned for our excellent education, cutting-edge fundamental research and direct transfer of new knowledge into society. Over 30,000 people from more than 120 countries find our university to be a place that promotes independent thinking and an environment that inspires excellence. Located in the heart of Europe, yet forging connections all over the world, we work together to develop solutions for the global challenges of today and tomorrow. Let’s connect Impressum Unterstützung Disclaimer Datenschutz © 2026 ETH Zürich