PhD position in Modeling and Control of Nonlinear Dynamical Systems from Data Sprachauswahl FAQ de Deutsch English Stellenportal chevron_left Übersicht chevron_left Übersicht PhD position in Modeling and Control of Nonlinear Dynamical Systems from Data 100%, Zurich, fixed-term print Drucken The Chair in Nonlinear Dynamics at ETH Zürich is inviting applications for a 100% PhD position in the development and application of nonlinear dynamical systems methods for complex physical problems known only from data. The objective is to provide efficient, theoretically sound, fast, and directly interpretable alternative in modelling to the black-box approach of neural networks. Job description The selected candidate will work on the furhter development of spectral submanifold (SSM) methods, aiming to further develop concepts in nonlinear model reduction Possible research directions include the development of nonlinear modelling and control approaches for fluid-structure interactions, material with memory, soft robotics, tele-operated systems, lightweight space structures, and turbulent flows Ongoing and prior work in related areas by the Chair in Nonlinear Dynamics can be found at the group website The position will be based at either the Department of Mechanical and Process Engineering or the Department of Mathematics, depending on the candidate’s background and preferences The starting date is flexible but an early start is preferred Profile The successful candidate is expected to have a master's degree in mechanical engineering, applied mathematics, physics, or related areas Strong mathematical skills (evidenced by high grades) are required and will be tested in technical interviews. Prior research experience in problems related to fluid mechanics, structural vibrations, model reduction or control is expected Experience in nonlinear dynamical systems methods and data-driven analysis is a plus Workplace Workplace We offer Your job with impact: Become part of ETH Zurich, which not only supports your professional development, but also actively contributes to positive change in society You can expect numerous benefits , such as public transport season tickets and car sharing, a wide range of sports offered by the ASVZ , childcare and attractive pension benefits chevron_right Working, teaching and research at ETH Zurich We value diversity and sustainability In line with our values , ETH Zurich encourages an inclusive culture. We promote equality of opportunity, value diversity and nurture a working and learning environment in which the rights and dignity of all our staff and students are respected. Visit our Equal Opportunities and Diversity website to find out how we ensure a fair and open environment that allows everyone to grow and flourish. Sustainability is a core value for us – we are consistently working towards a climate-neutral future . Curious? So are we. We look forward to receiving your online application with the following documents: A CV Bachelor and Master’s transcripts The contact information of at least two references Further information about the group can be found the Chair of Nonlinear Dynamics website . Questions regarding the position should be directed to Prof. George Haller, georgehaller@ethz.ch (no applications). Please note that we exclusively accept applications submitted through our online application portal. Applications via email or postal services will not be considered. About ETH Zürich ETH Zurich is one of the world’s leading universities specialising in science and technology. We are renowned for our excellent education, cutting-edge fundamental research and direct transfer of new knowledge into society. Over 30,000 people from more than 120 countries find our university to be a place that promotes independent thinking and an environment that inspires excellence. Located in the heart of Europe, yet forging connections all over the world, we work together to develop solutions for the global challenges of today and tomorrow. Curious? So are we. We look forward to receiving your online application with the following documents: A CV Bachelor and Master’s transcripts The contact information of at least two references Further information about the group can be found the Chair of Nonlinear Dynamics website . Questions regarding the position should be directed to Prof. George Haller, georgehaller@ethz.ch (no applications). Please note that we exclusively accept applications submitted through our online application portal. Applications via email or postal services will not be considered. Apply online now About ETH Zürich ETH Zurich is one of the world’s leading universities specialising in science and technology. We are renowned for our excellent education, cutting-edge fundamental research and direct transfer of new knowledge into society. Over 30,000 people from more than 120 countries find our university to be a place that promotes independent thinking and an environment that inspires excellence. Located in the heart of Europe, yet forging connections all over the world, we work together to develop solutions for the global challenges of today and tomorrow. Let’s connect Impressum Unterstützung Disclaimer Datenschutz © 2026 ETH Zürich