Doctoral Position in Debris Flow Monitoring Sprachauswahl FAQ de Deutsch English Stellenportal chevron_left Übersicht chevron_left Übersicht Doctoral Position in Debris Flow Monitoring 100%, Zurich, fixed-term print Drucken The Engineering Geology Group, (Prof. Dr. Jordan Aaron, Geological Institute) is looking for a creative and motivated doctoral candidate with a strong interest in debris flows mechanisms, field monitoring, and natural hazard risk management. The position is expected to start in January 2027 and is fully funded for 4 years. Project background This is an SNSF funded project that aims to improve our understanding and management of debris flows, which are one of the most important hazards in mountainous areas. The project is focussed on collecting and analyzing a unique field data se t collected using sensors originally developed for mobile robotics applications. Job description Particular focus will be placed on deriving velocity and flow depth estimates at unprecedented spatial and temporal resolutions by analyzing point cloud and camera data You will develop a deep understanding of debris flow motion, and use this to perform hypothesis driven analysis of in-situ debris flow measurements You will perform field work to install and operate the systems, as well as to understand sediment transfer at the five study sites You will combine all this knowledge to develop new ways to understand and manage debris flows Profile Msc. in Engineering Geology, Earth Sciences, Geological Engineering, Geotechnical Engineering or related fields Experience with or interest in point cloud analysis is considered an asset Strong interest in debris flow mechanisms Strong interest and/or background in landslide hazard and risk assessment Motivation, creativity, independence, and ability to work in a team Excellent English communication skills Workplace Workplace We offer We are an enthusiastic and collaborative research group with many opportunities for multi-disciplinary cutting-edge research in engineering geology. There are significant opportunities to broaden your research interests and develop your academic career. We further offer training in teaching through teaching assistantships, as well as access to state-of-the-art laboratories and research equipment. chevron_right Working, teaching and research at ETH Zurich We value diversity and sustainability In line with our values , ETH Zurich encourages an inclusive culture. We promote equality of opportunity, value diversity and nurture a working and learning environment in which the rights and dignity of all our staff and students are respected. Visit our Equal Opportunities and Diversity website to find out how we ensure a fair and open environment that allows everyone to grow and flourish. Sustainability is a core value for us – we are consistently working towards a climate-neutral future . Curious? So are we. We look forward to receiving your online application with the following documents: A brief cover letter summarizing your motivation to apply for the position A CV Transcripts The contact details of two references Further information about the Department of Earth Sciences can be found on our website . Questions regarding the position should be directed to Prof. Jordan Aaron, Email: jordan.aaron@eaps.ethz.ch (no applications). Please note that we exclusively accept applications submitted through our online application portal. Applications via email or postal services will not be considered. We would like to point out that the pre-selection is carried out by the responsible recruiters and not by artificial intelligence. Applications will be accepted until October 1, 2026. About ETH Zürich ETH Zurich is one of the world’s leading universities specialising in science and technology. We are renowned for our excellent education, cutting-edge fundamental research and direct transfer of new knowledge into society. Over 30,000 people from more than 120 countries find our university to be a place that promotes independent thinking and an environment that inspires excellence. Located in the heart of Europe, yet forging connections all over the world, we work together to develop solutions for the global challenges of today and tomorrow. Curious? So are we. We look forward to receiving your online application with the following documents: A brief cover letter summarizing your motivation to apply for the position A CV Transcripts The contact details of two references Further information about the Department of Earth Sciences can be found on our website . Questions regarding the position should be directed to Prof. Jordan Aaron, Email: jordan.aaron@eaps.ethz.ch (no applications). Please note that we exclusively accept applications submitted through our online application portal. Applications via email or postal services will not be considered. We would like to point out that the pre-selection is carried out by the responsible recruiters and not by artificial intelligence. Applications will be accepted until October 1, 2026. Apply online now About ETH Zürich ETH Zurich is one of the world’s leading universities specialising in science and technology. We are renowned for our excellent education, cutting-edge fundamental research and direct transfer of new knowledge into society. Over 30,000 people from more than 120 countries find our university to be a place that promotes independent thinking and an environment that inspires excellence. Located in the heart of Europe, yet forging connections all over the world, we work together to develop solutions for the global challenges of today and tomorrow. Let’s connect Impressum Unterstützung Disclaimer Datenschutz © 2026 ETH Zürich