Doctoral Position in sparse reconstruction of virtual histology images Sprachauswahl FAQ de Deutsch English Stellenportal chevron_left Übersicht chevron_left Übersicht Doctoral Position in sparse reconstruction of virtual histology images 100%, Zurich, fixed-term print Drucken The X-ray Imaging Professorship develops advanced imaging techniques at the synchrotron and strives at the translation of novel imaging approaches to medical devices in a multidisciplinary effort involving academia, industry and medical partners. The Paul Scherrer Institute PSI is the largest research institute for natural and engineering sciences within Switzerland. We perform cutting-edge research in the fields of matter and materials, energy and environment and human health. By performing fundamental and applied research, we work on sustainable solutions for major challenges facing society, science and economy. We are seeking a highly motivated Doctoral Student to join our team in translational X-ray imaging and contribute to the development of X-ray imaging technology that can significantly improve the treatment and outcome of oncological patients. Project background You will contribute to the design and implementation of machine-learning-based sparse 3D image reconstruction modalities to be used for fast histopathological assessment of tumor biopsies with X-ray phase-contrast radiography and tomography. As part of our multidisciplinary team of academic and clinical researchers, you will be involved in ongoing pilot studies at cantonal hospitals and have the chance to contribute directly to the improvement of clinical workflows and benefit cancer patients and health care professionals Job description Collection of grating interferometry X-ray phase contrast microCT data of breast tissue biopsies Setup of data pipelines for synchrotron and laboratory microCT scans of soft tissue Develop algorithms for reconstruction of virtual histopathology images from sparse phase-contrast CT acquisitions of oncological specimens Comparison with standard histology and assessment of algorithm performance Present results at international conferences as well as internal workshops Summarize your results in scientific publications Support the professorship in teaching activities Profile Excellent qualifications with a university degree (Master or equivalent) in physics, engineering or computer science Proficiency in computer vision and machine learning with Python Knowledge of X-ray physics and laboratory experience in imaging would be a benefit Highly self-motivated, curious and committed character Well organized Willingness to conduct research in a multidisciplinary team Excellent communication skills in English (written and spoken) Workplace Workplace We offer Our organization operates on the principles of interdisciplinary collaboration, innovation, and dynamism. As a valued member of our team, you can expect to receive comprehensive on-the-job training, as well as access to various personal and professional development opportunities. Additionally, we foster a strong culture of vocational training, which will enable you to enhance your skillset and advance your career. We recognize the importance of achieving a healthy work-life balance, and as such, we offer modern employment conditions and on-site infrastructure to support you in optimizing your schedule to accommodate your personal interests and family commitments. chevron_right Working, teaching and research at ETH Zurich We value diversity and sustainability In line with our values , ETH Zurich encourages an inclusive culture. We promote equality of opportunity, value diversity and nurture a working and learning environment in which the rights and dignity of all our staff and students are respected. Visit our Equal Opportunities and Diversity website to find out how we ensure a fair and open environment that allows everyone to grow and flourish. Sustainability is a core value for us – we are consistently working towards a climate-neutral future . Curious? So are we. We look forward to receiving your online application with the following documents: Motivation letter CV Publication List Transcripts Ideally two reference letters Further information about the PSI Center for Photon Science can be found on our Website . Questions regarding the position should be directed to Prof. Dr. Marco Stampanoni, stampanoni@biomed.ee.ethz.ch or Dr. Gianluca Lori, gianluca.iori@psi.ch . Please note that we exclusively accept applications submitted through our online application portal. Applications via email or postal services will not be considered. About ETH Zürich ETH Zurich is one of the world’s leading universities specialising in science and technology. We are renowned for our excellent education, cutting-edge fundamental research and direct transfer of new knowledge into society. Over 30,000 people from more than 120 countries find our university to be a place that promotes independent thinking and an environment that inspires excellence. Located in the heart of Europe, yet forging connections all over the world, we work together to develop solutions for the global challenges of today and tomorrow. Curious? So are we. We look forward to receiving your online application with the following documents: Motivation letter CV Publication List Transcripts Ideally two reference letters Further information about the PSI Center for Photon Science can be found on our Website . Questions regarding the position should be directed to Prof. Dr. Marco Stampanoni, stampanoni@biomed.ee.ethz.ch or Dr. Gianluca Lori, gianluca.iori@psi.ch . Please note that we exclusively accept applications submitted through our online application portal. Applications via email or postal services will not be considered. Apply online now About ETH Zürich ETH Zurich is one of the world’s leading universities specialising in science and technology. We are renowned for our excellent education, cutting-edge fundamental research and direct transfer of new knowledge into society. Over 30,000 people from more than 120 countries find our university to be a place that promotes independent thinking and an environment that inspires excellence. Located in the heart of Europe, yet forging connections all over the world, we work together to develop solutions for the global challenges of today and tomorrow. Let’s connect Impressum Unterstützung Disclaimer Datenschutz © 2026 ETH Zürich