PhD Position in Determinants of Human Performance in Running Sprachauswahl FAQ de Deutsch English Stellenportal chevron_left Übersicht chevron_left Übersicht PhD Position in Determinants of Human Performance in Running 100%, Zurich, fixed-term print Drucken Interested in pushing the boundaries of running performance by identifying new important targets for training and other interventions? The Running Performance Group of the Exercise Physiology Lab at the Department of Health Sciences and Technology is expanding its activities in sports performance research. We are currently offering a PhD position in the field of determinants of human performance during running events. Project background Human performance during running events is multifactorial. While key drives of performance have been known for a long time, there is growing appreciation for the more nuanced aspects that determine performance in different events. The goal of this PhD will be to analyze running events of different nature and identify new potential determinants of performance, optmize their testing and explore its potential modification via different interventions. Applicants are highly encouraged to bring their own ideas to the table and will have the chance to work together with our network of collaborators to contribute towards new improvements in athletic performance. Job description You will design studies involving experimental investigations in the laboratory and in the field to uncover and validate new determinants of running performance. You will be given the opportunity to directly test your ideas using longitudinal training studies. Specific responsibilities include: Design, execute and publish studies in the field of determinants of human performance during running Establish new collaborations within and outside the ETH Domain leveraging the new technologies available at ETH in sports science research Present your work at national and International conferences Support teaching activities and co-supervise BSc and MSc students Profile Master’s degree in Health Sciences and Technology, Human Movement Sciences, Life Sciences, or Human Medicine Solid background in biomechanics, including hands-on testing experience Good foundation of exercise pyhsiology R and /or Phyton coding skills, solid foundation in statistics Proactive and inquisitive personality, eager to exploring new approaches, self-motivated and team-oriented Excellent communication skills and academic qualifications Experience in coaching at different levels is welcome Proficiency in English (spoken and written, C1 level) and German (spoken and written, C1 level), or strong commitment to learn quickly Workplace Workplace We offer We offer a dynamic and interdisciplinary research environment with access to state-of-the-art laboratory facilities and technologies. ETH Zurich is a family-friendly employer offering excellent working conditions. Look forward to an exciting and inspiring work environment with a rich cultural diversity. chevron_right Working, teaching and research at ETH Zurich We value diversity and sustainability In line with our values , ETH Zurich encourages an inclusive culture. We promote equality of opportunity, value diversity and nurture a working and learning environment in which the rights and dignity of all our staff and students are respected. Visit our Equal Opportunities and Diversity website to find out how we ensure a fair and open environment that allows everyone to grow and flourish. Sustainability is a core value for us – we are consistently working towards a climate-neutral future . Curious? So are we. We look forward to receiving your online application with the following documents: Motivation letter (max. 1 page, including details of research experience and career goals) Research proposal (max. 2 pages) within the project background described above (non-AI generated) Curriculum vitae with contact details of two academic references (name, affiliation, position, e-mail; one referee should be from your current organisation) Degree certificates and academic transcripts Copies of BSc and MSc theses (any language)*, if possible and not confidential * If you haven’t completed your MSc studies at the time of submission, please substitute the MSc diploma with a written statement by your supervisor specifying the expected completion date and confirming that you are expected to finish on time and send the most recent draft of your thesis. Please note that applications without these documents will not be considered. For more information about the Exercise Physiology Lab, please visit our website . Questions regarding the position should be directed to the lead of the Running Performance Group, Dr. Fernando G. Beltrami, fernando.beltrami@hest.ethz.ch with Prof. Dr. Christina M. Spengler christina.spengler@hest.ethz.ch in Cc (no application). Please note that we exclusively accept applications submitted through our online application portal. Applications via email or postal services will not be considered. We would like to point out that the pre-selection is carried out by the responsible recruiters and not by artificial intelligence. The call is open until we identify a suitable candidate. We have no fixed deadline, starting date can be any time, the sooner the better. About ETH Zürich ETH Zurich is one of the world’s leading universities specialising in science and technology. We are renowned for our excellent education, cutting-edge fundamental research and direct transfer of new knowledge into society. Over 30,000 people from more than 120 countries find our university to be a place that promotes independent thinking and an environment that inspires excellence. Located in the heart of Europe, yet forging connections all over the world, we work together to develop solutions for the global challenges of today and tomorrow. Curious? So are we. We look forward to receiving your online application with the following documents: Motivation letter (max. 1 page, including details of research experience and career goals) Research proposal (max. 2 pages) within the project background described above (non-AI generated) Curriculum vitae with contact details of two academic references (name, affiliation, position, e-mail; one referee should be from your current organisation) Degree certificates and academic transcripts Copies of BSc and MSc theses (any language)*, if possible and not confidential * If you haven’t completed your MSc studies at the time of submission, please substitute the MSc diploma with a written statement by your supervisor specifying the expected completion date and confirming that you are expected to finish on time and send the most recent draft of your thesis. Please note that applications without these documents will not be considered. For more information about the Exercise Physiology Lab, please visit our website . Questions regarding the position should be directed to the lead of the Running Performance Group, Dr. Fernando G. Beltrami, fernando.beltrami@hest.ethz.ch with Prof. Dr. Christina M. Spengler christina.spengler@hest.ethz.ch in Cc (no application). Please note that we exclusively accept applications submitted through our online application portal. Applications via email or postal services will not be considered. We would like to point out that the pre-selection is carried out by the responsible recruiters and not by artificial intelligence. The call is open until we identify a suitable candidate. We have no fixed deadline, starting date can be any time, the sooner the better. Apply online now About ETH Zürich ETH Zurich is one of the world’s leading universities specialising in science and technology. We are renowned for our excellent education, cutting-edge fundamental research and direct transfer of new knowledge into society. Over 30,000 people from more than 120 countries find our university to be a place that promotes independent thinking and an environment that inspires excellence. Located in the heart of Europe, yet forging connections all over the world, we work together to develop solutions for the global challenges of today and tomorrow. Let’s connect Impressum Unterstützung Disclaimer Datenschutz © 2026 ETH Zürich