Salary increase for doctoral students DE FR EN IT Search Exact Login What’s new Research Funding About us What’s new Data stories Events Scientific awards Image competition Subscribe to newsletter Subscribe to the SNSF Newsletter Subscribe to the newsletters of the NRPs ScienceGeist Magazine Horizons Media enquiries Research New Findings Figures and data Focus on basic research Dialogue with society National research Fresh impetus for research Funding Open calls Find funding scheme Updates Information for researchers Use-inspired research Open Access Information events International Project staff All information How to Submission requirements Enter a proposal Evaluation procedure Lifetime management of projects Reaching out to the public Funding Regulations Documents and forms About us Profile Mission statement Strategy Statutes and legal framework History Annual report Figures and data Organisation SNSF bodies Board Foundation Council Delegates Assembly Research Council and evaluation bodies Administrative Offices Work with us Mandates Research Council mandates Project mandates Partners National partners International partners AcademiaNet Useful links Contact Contact us How to find us Employees Logo SNSF Media enquiries Send Invoices Login DE FR EN IT Homepage What’s new Salary increase for doctoral students Data stories Events Scientific awards Image competition Subscribe to newsletter Subscribe to the SNSF Newsletter Subscribe to the newsletters of the NRPs ScienceGeist Magazine Horizons Media enquiries Salary increase for doctoral students © johan10 | iStock 24.07.2024 Reading time: 3 min. The SNSF is increasing the minimum salaries for doctoral students employed under its funding schemes. The measure will take effect on 1 January 2026. Share LinkedIn Bluesky Email WhatsApp Mastodon X Facebook New for doctoral students employed under the SNSF's funding schemes in Switzerland: their minimum salaries will be increased. The SNSF prescribes a range within which higher education institutions are free to set effective salaries. The lower limit of this range will increase from 47,040 to 50,000 francs gross pay (+6%). This decision was made by the Presiding Board of the Research Council after consultation with the Delegates Assembly, the body representing the interests of higher education institutions and scientific organisations. A priority measure The increase will take effect from 1 January 2026, a timeframe that will allow higher education institutions to plan their budgets and guarantee equal treatment for their doctoral students. New applications will have to respect the adjusted salary range. The institutions are free to anticipate this measure by using the room for manoeuvre in the existing salary range. For current subsidies, an increase is possible within the overall budgets that have already been allocated. For the SNSF, this increase in doctoral students' salaries is a priority measure, as the last adjustment to nominal salaries dates back to 2014. For this purpose, it has allocated a budget of 52 million francs in its Multi-Year Programme 2025–2028. In view of the tense economic context, the financing of this measure will be made possible by concentrating the funding portfolio. “This salary increase is essential if we are to maintain the attractiveness of the doctorate and of Switzerland as a research centre,” emphasises Thomas Werder, member of the SNSF Executive Management and head of Research Funding. Guaranteeing favourable working conditions More than 2,000 doctoral students are newly recruited each year under the SNSF's various funding schemes, with an average total of almost 6,000 employed across all current grants. Although the SNSF does not act as a direct employer, it is committed to guaranteeing doctoral students favourable working conditions. Despite the financial constraints it faces, the SNSF has already adjusted the upper limit of the salary range in 2023 and again in 2024 (to CHF 55,000 gross) to enable higher education institutions to extend the compensation for inflation granted within their institutions to SNSF project staff. Project staff Concentration of the funding portfolio from 2025 Increase in salary bands for project staff (2024) Project staff: adjustment of salaries to inflation (2023) Contact Grant Management Email: Share LinkedIn Bluesky Email WhatsApp Mastodon X Facebook Contact Swiss National Science Foundation (SNSF) Wildhainweg 3 CH-3001 Bern Contact us Send invoices Work with us Job offers Media Media enquiries Annual report Figures and data Grant Search Here you will find detailed information about the research projects and grants approved by the SNSF: Grant Search Newsletter Receive the latest news regularly: Subscribe to the SNSF Newsletter Subscribe to the newsletters of the NRPs Subscribe to RSS ScienceGeist: research policy news Disclaimer Impressum © SNSF 2026