Salary | ETH Zurich Homepage Navigation Search Content Footer Contact Sitemap Header Services Student portal Alumni association Staffnet Contact Login Search Search en EN DE FR (TA) IT (TA) Departments ETH Zurich Select a department Departments D-ARCH: Architecture D-BAUG: Civil, Environmental and Geomatic Engineering D-BSSE: Biosystems Science and Engineering D-INFK: Computer Science D-ITET: Information Technology and Electrical Engineering D-MATL: Department of Materials D-MAVT: Mechanical and Process Engineering D-BIOL: Biology D-CHAB: Chemistry and Applied Biosciences D-MATH: Mathematics D-PHYS: Physics D-EAPS: Earth and Planetary Sciences D-HEST: Health Sciences and Technology D-USYS: Environmental Systems Science D-MTEC: Management, Technology and Economics D-GESS: Humanities, Social and Political Sciences Language Selection en English Deutsch Français (TA) Italiano (TA) You are here Homepage ETH Zurich Working, teaching and research Welcome Center Employment contract and salary Salary Salary HR Consulting is responsible for determining salaries. The subpages are mainly oriented to doctoral students and postdoctoral researchers. Further information on employment and salary for all other employees can be found in Staffnet . Doctoral students and scientific assistants I are paid a fixed-rate salary . At the first level of their career (first year), they receive a fixed starting salary. After one year, this salary is automatically increased in predefined stages for the second year and third year. No further salary increases are specified from the fourth year onwards. Salary rates as of 1.1.2026 (in CHF) From 1 July 2020, it is required to top up the salaries of new doctoral students with a scholarship to the lowest salary level (standard rate), which may not be lower than this. In addition, a salary development must be provided for. Lump-sum salary (in exceptional cases) A lump-sum salary can also be arranged, depending on the requirements of the funding provider. The salary amount is also dependent on the funding provider. Lump-sum salaries are paid out in 12 monthly instalments. These salaries have to be actively adjusted and they are increased as and when the project funding situation allows. Further information Ordinance on Scientific Staff Ordinance on Doctoral Studies Doctoral students and scientific assistants I are paid a fixed-rate salary . At the first level of their career (first year), they receive a fixed starting salary. After one year, this salary is automatically increased in predefined stages for the second year and third year. No further salary increases are specified from the fourth year onwards. Salary rates as of 1.1.2026 (in CHF) Lump-sum salary (in exceptional cases) A lump-sum salary can also be arranged, depending on the requirements of the funding provider. The salary amount depends on the funding provider. Lump-sum salaries are paid out in 12 monthly instalments. These salaries have to be actively adjusted and they are increased as and when the project funding situation allows. Further information Ordinance on Scientific Staf f Postdoctoral researchers / scientific assistants II are paid a fixed-rate salary . At the first level of their career (first year), they receive a fixed starting salary. After one year, this salary is automatically increased in predefined stages for the second and third year. No further salary increases are specified from the fourth year onwards. These are the salary rates for postdoctoral researchers / scientific assistants II (rates in CHF): Salary rates as of 1.1.2026 (in CHF) Lump-sum salary (in exceptional cases) A lump-sum salary can also be arranged, depending on the requirements of the funding provider. The salary amount depends on the funding provider. Lump-sum salaries are paid out in 12 monthly instalments. These salaries have to be actively adjusted and they are increased as and when the project funding situation allows. Further information Ordinance on Scientific Staf f Family allowance ETH Zurich employees who take care of children of minor age or children in education receive a family allowance in accordance with basic legal principles. Information on other scientific or support functions Please note: The information on this page is meant for information purposes only. No responsibility is taken for the correctness of this information. The rules and regulations may have changed in the meantime. For legally binding information please contact HR Consulting of ETH Zurich. Footer Recommended links Media information Search Keyword or person Follow us Services Student portal Alumni association Staffnet Contact Login Departments D-ARCH Architecture D-BAUG Civil, Environmental and Geomatic Engineering D-BIOL Biology D-BSSE Biosystems Science and Engineering D-CHAB Chemistry and Applied Biosciences D-EAPS Earth and Planetary Sciences D-GESS Humanities, Social and Political Sciences D-HEST Health Sciences and Technology D-INFK Computer Science D-ITET Information Technology and Electrical Engineering D-MATH Mathematics D-MATL Department of Materials D-MAVT Mechanical and Process Engineering D-MTEC Management, Technology and Economics D-PHYS Physics D-USYS Environmental Systems Science Table of contents and legal Sitemap Imprint Accessibility Statement Disclaimer & Copyright Data protection © 2026 Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zürich JavaScript has been disabled in your browser