PhD Fellowship fundamental research - FWO Skip to content Vlaanderen NL Contact Support programmes Support programmes With our financial resources we support individual researchers and research teams with personal fellowships and project funding. All about support programmes In Flanders PhD fellowships Postdoctoral fellowships Sabbatical bench fee Research projects Research infrastructure Scientific prizes International International mobility International projects International networks European framework programme Evaluation process Evaluation process We give you an overview 'from application to award' and the various FWO-expert panels that evaluate applications. All about evaluation process From Application to Award FWO-expert panels I am a panel member FWO Review College Fundamental Research Results & outreach Results & Outreach The FWO places great importance on strengthening public support for science. Discover our opportunities in science communication and outreach for researchers and our program for the general public. All about results & outreach Opportunities for Researchers Announcement of results Jobs for researchers Training for researchers Public Prize for Piquing Pioneers Program for the general public Database financed research New scientific insights Kennismakers magazine Brussels Science festival After awarding After awarding What happens when the FWO has approved your fellowship or research project? Here we will take you step by step through the different stages and present all essential practical and administrative information. All about after awarding I have a fellowship I have a project I have a travel grant Wat na toekenning About FWO About FWO The FWO offers researchers in Flanders the opportunity to create knowledge. All about about fwo Organisation and policy Who is FWO Organisation Research policy Working at FWO Publications and events Publications Events For the media Support programmes Support programmes With our financial resources we support individual researchers and research teams with personal fellowships and project funding. All about support programmes In Flanders PhD fellowships Postdoctoral fellowships Sabbatical bench fee Research projects Research infrastructure Scientific prizes International International mobility International projects International networks European framework programme Evaluation process Evaluation process We give you an overview 'from application to award' and the various FWO-expert panels that evaluate applications. All about evaluation process From Application to Award FWO-expert panels I am a panel member FWO Review College Fundamental Research Results & outreach Results & Outreach The FWO places great importance on strengthening public support for science. Discover our opportunities in science communication and outreach for researchers and our program for the general public. All about results & outreach Opportunities for Researchers Announcement of results Jobs for researchers Training for researchers Public Prize for Piquing Pioneers Program for the general public Database financed research New scientific insights Kennismakers magazine Brussels Science festival After awarding After awarding What happens when the FWO has approved your fellowship or research project? Here we will take you step by step through the different stages and present all essential practical and administrative information. All about after awarding I have a fellowship I have a project I have a travel grant Wat na toekenning About FWO About FWO The FWO offers researchers in Flanders the opportunity to create knowledge. All about about fwo Organisation and policy Who is FWO Organisation Research policy Working at FWO Publications and events Publications Events For the media Login E-loket Home Support programmes All calls PhD PhD Fellowship fundamental research PhD Fellowship fundamental research This fellowship supports researchers who have recently graduated and aim to pursue an independent PhD fundamental research project. Status Closed 02/03/2026 Duration 4 Year No extension possible In association with Plantentuin Meise VITO WL INBO KOTK Demoucelle Parkinson Charity Announcement of results 07/10/2026 Op deze pagina Objective Dates Characteristics Eligibility Procedures Regulations Infosessions Expertpanels Scoring grids Percentiles and study results 2nd axis Interview Additional documents Contact Important changes The panel structure for the social and human sciences has been changed. The changes relate to the former Cult 2 and G&M4 panels. Make sure you select the correct panel when submitting your application! Guidelines on form requirements in application forms and accompanying documents of application programmes should be strictly followed. If these are violated, the application may be declared ineligible. From this call on it is more explicitly highlighted than before how results in the past or the future related to Open Science (such as datasets, research software, but also ‘grey literature’ (a.o.) can be mentioned and can contribute to the quality of the proposal. See the CV, the section ‘Research methodology and work plan’, an extra question on the data management plan (DMP), but also elsewhere in the application this topic can be covered. Objective With the PhD fellowship program fundamental research, the FWO aims to support early-stage researchers in their development into independent researchers by giving them the opportunity to carry out their own scientifically challenging and innovative research project in view of obtaining a PhD. Thanks to the collaboration and support of Meise Botanic Garden , INBO , VITO and the Flanders Hydraulics Research , the FWO can award additional PhD fellowships fundamental research. More information and conditions can be found on the links under the institutions. As part of the ’Kom op tegen Kanker ’ campaign, the FWO awards an additional PhD fellowship fundamental research for the top-ranked candidate in the Med4 - Cancer Research panel . This year, there will be no call for applications for the FWO – Demoucelle Parkinson Charity PhD fellowship. Dates 05 December 2025 : opening call 02 March 2026 at 5pm CET : closing call (last application date) 10 – 26 June 2026 : (online) preselection meetings 30 June 2026 : sending out invitations for interview 31 August – 30 September 2026 : (physical) interviews 07 October 2026 : announcement of results 01 November 2026 : start of fellowship 17 November 2026 : deadline for sending feedback Characteristics Duration of the fellowship: 4 years Grant amount (0 years seniority): € 2,600 /month (index 2.1223 from 1/3/2025) Bench fee: € 3,720/year Eligibility You must be affiliated to a university in the Flemish Community, the Evangelical Theological Faculty in Leuven or the Faculty of Protestant Theology in Brussels. At the start of the fellowship, you must hold a degree that is at least equivalent to a Master's degree that follows a Bachelor's degree and has been awarded by the competent institutions of one of the countries of the EEA or Switzerland. If you have a degree certificate issued within the EEA or Switzerland but other than a master’s degree OR you have a degree certificate issued outside the EEA and Switzerland (this also applies to degrees awarded in the UK), then you must obtain one of the following documents at the start of the fellowship: An attestation of NARIC-Vlaanderen that proves your degree is equivalent to the level of a master’s degree awarded by one of the Flemish universities. (Or) A declaration in which the administration of the university in the Flemish Community confirms that you will be allowed to prepare a doctoral thesis. The time span between your Master's degree or equivalent and 01 March 2026 may not be longer than three years. You may have a maximum of 18 months of scientific seniority on 1 March 2026. You can only apply twice for a PhD fellowship. You have not yet benefited from this fellowship, not even in part. You agree to the scientific integrity clause . More details on the eligibility criteria for the PhD fellowships can be found in the PhD fellowship fundamental research regulations . Procedures You prepare your project in collaboration with a promotor at a Flemish university, the Evangelical Theological Faculty in Leuven or the Faculty of Protestant Theology in Brussels, who is willing to further guide you as a PhD student. You submit your application via the online FWO e-portal and choose the expert panel that will evaluate your application. Important: guidelines on form requirements in application forms and accompanying documents of application programmes should be strictly followed. If these are violated, the application may be declared inadmissible. The FWO informs your promotor (and any co-promotor) of your application and asks your promotor to submit a letter of recommendation. The selected expert panel evaluates your application and, after the preselection meeting, may invite you to the interview. If you are invited for the interviews, you will come to the FWO offices and defend your application before the selected expert panel. The Board of Trustees makes the final decision on the selection based on the advice of the expert panels that evaluated the applications and interviews. You will receive the results via e-mail and you can also find them on the results page once they have been made public. Regulations General Regulations These regulations apply to any funding offered by the FWO. Regulations for PhD fellowship – fundamental research These regulations contain all the conditions, procedures, etc. for applying for and carrying out a PhD fellowship fundamental research at the FWO. Regulations for Bench Fees of FWO fellows These regulations contain all information about the bench fees for PhD and Postdoctoral Researchers of the FWO. Regulations internal and external peer review These regulations set out the requirements for the composition of the expert panels and the experts’ code of conduct as well as the scoring and selection methodology (decision-making process). Infosessions Every year, the FWO provides more information about the new PhD fellowship call during info sessions at the universities. Registration for one of these info sessions can be done through the universities. If you cannot attend the information session, you can consult the presentation . A separate video on how to successfully complete the application form is available here . The FWO offers two types of PhD fellowships. To help you make the right choice, the FWO has developed a short video. You can watch it here . Presentation info session call 2026 1.58 MB pdf Expertpanels You choose a panel of experts to evaluate your application. You choose the panel of experts that covers the research topic of your proposal as best as possible. Your choice is important because your chosen panel can always decide that the scope of your application does not fit within their scope. It is therefore best to discuss your choice with your promotor. The FWO is not allowed to give advice on your choice of the panel. Check the list of the panels fundamental research thoroughly. For the specifically interdisciplinary panel, you should give special attention to the functional definition of interdisciplinarity and why your research meets this definition. You write this motivation in the panel's motivation section. This is important because the panel will also evaluate your application on the interdisciplinarity component (see score grids). We will communicate the composition of the panels for the call 2026 early April 2026 on the expert panels webpage. Scoring grids The criteria that panel members will use during the evaluation of your PhD fundamental research application in the preselection and in the interview for the call 2026 can be found hereunder. Scoring grids preselection call 2025 0.33 MB pdf Scoring grids interview call 2025 0.33 MB pdf Percentiles and study results In the application forms, you need to specify a percentile. How to do that is explained in the document below. Guidelines for determining percentiles 0.38 MB pdf 2nd axis Study narrative : The application form pays attention to a qualitative description of the completed study pathway. In the relevant section, applicants should set out why, based on their study pathway, they would be an excellent candidate to engage in cutting-edge research through their proposed PhD project. Applicants may, for example, refer to study results, awards, diplomas or specific courses. This qualitative approach should allow for a broader assessment of the candidate than merely based on study results or percentiles. Provide us with your diverse researcher profile : The FWO gives ample consideration to diverse researcher profiles and research output in the application forms. It thereby gives researchers the opportunity to demonstrate the construction of their research careers through a range of scientifically relevant activities, skills, experiences and achievements. This is in line with the international evolution away from a one-sided focus on classical output criteria (such as publications, bibliometrics, patents, etc.) and towards a broader view of what science can be and achieve, while respecting the specificity of each discipline. The application forms are supposed to help the researcher demonstrate that versatility. The FWO instructs the panel members to take this into account in the evaluation of your application. State any obstacles in your research : We recognise within the FWO any possible impact or event that hampered your research or achievements. We encourage you to indicate such impacts in the application form under the career breaks and motivation statement sections. NEW: From this call on it is more explicitly highlighted than before how results in the past or the future related to Open Science (such as datasets, research software, but also ‘grey literature’ (a.o.) can be mentioned and can contribute to the quality of the proposal. See the CV, the section ‘Research methodology and work plan’, an extra question on the data management plan (DMP), but also elsewhere in the application this topic can be covered. Interview After preselection, we will notify candidates of the results of the preselection. You can find interview dates, information about our interview rooms and an update of the interview guidelines below. Interview rooms 3.25 MB pdf Interview dates call 2026 0.12 MB pdf Interview guidelines 0.27 MB pdf Additional documents Example application form PhD fellowship fundamental research call 2026 2.48 MB pdf Contact More information on the evaluation procedure can be found in the presentation for the info sessions . A separate video is available on how to complete the application form. For questions about the application template or procedure, you can contact your file administrator . In the event of technical problems with the e-portal: FWOhelpdesk@fwo.be The FWO aims to be the leading funding partner for researchers in Flanders. By offering financial support and promoting international cooperation, we create a favourable climate for world-class scientific research. You can find us on Quick to Support programmes Evaluation process Results & outreach After awarding About FWO Complaint Procedure Whistleblowing directive The review procedure Contact HOEK 38 Leuvenseweg 38, 1000 Brussel +32-2-512 91 10 You can find us on fwo.be is an official website of the Flemish government published by FWO Cookies Privacy statement