Doctoral fellow — Ghent University You are using an outdated browser. Please upgrade your browser or activate Google Chrome Frame to improve your experience. ZOEK MENU Search Site Search Internal search Log in Nederlandse homepage Programmes Research University life Jobs About us Information for Prospective students Ghent University students Incoming PhD candidates Alumni Organizations and companies Faculty and staff (intranet) Home Jobs Doctoral fellows Doctoral fellow Doctoral fellow https://www.ugent.be/en/work/scientific/doctoral-fellow-134 https://www.ugent.be/++resource++plone-logo.svg Doctoral fellow Last application date Nov 30, 2026 23:59 Department TW05 - Department of Information Technology Degree Master’s degree in Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Physics Engineering, or a related Master of Science degree Occupancy rate 100% Vacancy type Research staff ABOUT GHENT UNIVERSITY Ghent University is a world of its own. Employing more than 15.000 people, it is actively involved in education and research, management and administration, as well as technical and social service provision on a daily basis. It is one of the largest, most exciting employers in the area and offers great career opportunities. With its 11 faculties and more than 85 departments offering state-of-the-art study programmes grounded in research in a wide range of academic fields, Ghent University is a logical choice for its staff and students. The "WAVES" research group (http://www.waves.intec.ugent.be/) is the expertise center of the Department of Information Technology of Ghent University/IMEC in Belgium for physical-layer research of advanced wireless networks, bioelectromagnetics, and measurements, simulations and modeling of the radio channel and electromagnetic exposure of current and future wireless networks. YOUR TASKS Researcher for network modeling tool for integrated planning of terrestrial and non-terrestrial networks (Research group WAVES) - Function description 6G networks will include drones and Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites to enable 3D global coverage next to the terrestrial network deployments. It will be of huge importance to integrate the joint planning of the terrestrial and non-terrestrial networks (NTNs) into a network modeling tool capable of optimizing the balance between terrestrial and aerial infrastructure, considering the availability of radio resources, human exposure, infrastructure cost, power consumption, and energy efficiency (at both network and user device level). Important research domains in this context are: Extend the WAVES terrestrial propagation and network planning tool for non-terrestrial communication o Model LEO satellite and UAV communication and exposure AI based algorithms to optimize the performance of integrated terrestrial and non-terrestrial networks (coverage, capacity, energy, exposure) Digital twin operation: dynamic environment-aware replanning of combined TN-NTN networks based on input from experimental data of monitoring sensors WHAT WE ARE LOOKING FOR We are looking for enthusiastic candidates to perform research in the domains above in both national and international projects. Candidates with a Master’s degree in Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Physics Engineering, or a related Master of Science degree qualify for this research job. WHAT WE CAN OFFER YOU We offer a pleasant work climate within a young dynamic team. We offer a full-time position as a doctoral fellow, consisting of an initial period of 12 months, which - after a positive evaluation, will be extended to a total maximum of 48 months. The fellowship amount is 100% of the net salary of an AAP member in equal family circumstances. The individual fellowship amount is determined by Team Personnel Administration based on family status and seniority. A grant that meets the conditions and criteria of the regulations for doctoral fellowships is considered free of personal income tax. Click here for more information about our salary scales All Ghent University staff members enjoy a number of benefits, such as a wide range of training and education opportunities, 36 days of holiday leave (on an annual basis for a full-time job) supplemented by annual fixed bridge days, bicycle allowance and eco vouchers. Click here for a complete overview of all the staff benefits. INTERESTED? If you are interested in this job offer, you can address your application letter and curr. vitae to: Isabelle Van der Elstraeten Ghent University/IMEC INTEC - WAVES iGent, Technologiepark-Zwijnaarde 126, B-9052 Gent, BELGIUM e-mail: Isabelle.VanderElstraeten@UGent.be Programmes For exchange students Lifelong learning View all Research Doctoral research Funding opportunities Science with and for society Core Facilities 21ZAP Initiative View all University life Housing facilities Restaurants Sport facilities Bicycle rent and repair Job Service for Students View all Tools Athena Library TimeEdit Email Ufora Oasis Research Explorer Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Feedback Privacy Disclaimer Cookie declaration Accessibility © 2026 Ghent University Back to top Naar boven