Doctoral fellow — Ghent University You are using an outdated browser. Please upgrade your browser or activate Google Chrome Frame to improve your experience. ZOEK MENU Search Site Search Internal search Log in Nederlandse homepage Programmes Research University life Jobs About us Information for Prospective students Ghent University students Incoming PhD candidates Alumni Organizations and companies Faculty and staff (intranet) Home Jobs Doctoral fellows Doctoral fellow Doctoral fellow https://www.ugent.be/en/work/scientific/doctoral-fellow-135 https://www.ugent.be/++resource++plone-logo.svg Doctoral fellow Last application date Nov 30, 2026 23:59 Department TW05 - Department of Information Technology Degree Master’s degree in Electrical Engineering, Physics Engineering, Computer Sciences, or a related Master of Science degree Occupancy rate 100% Vacancy type Research staff ABOUT GHENT UNIVERSITY Ghent University is a world of its own. Employing more than 15.000 people, it is actively involved in education and research, management and administration, as well as technical and social service provision on a daily basis. It is one of the largest, most exciting employers in the area and offers great career opportunities. With its 11 faculties and more than 85 departments offering state-of-the-art study programmes grounded in research in a wide range of academic fields, Ghent University is a logical choice for its staff and students. The "WAVES" research group ( http://www.waves.intec.ugent.be/ ) is the expertise center of the Department of Information Technology of Ghent University/IMEC in Belgium for physical-layer research of advanced wireless networks, bioelectromagnetics, and measurements, simulations and modeling of the radio channel and electromagnetic exposure of current and future wireless networks. YOUR TASKS Researcher for Digital Twin Mapping of 5G-6G dynamic electromagnetic field environments (Research group WAVES) - Function description Monitoring of electromagnetic (EM) fields of legacy and 5-6th generation (5G and 6G) wireless networks is important for risk communication about radiation and radiofrequency (RF) exposure, but also for frequency and radio resource management, and monitoring and adaptability of wireless systems. 6G networks will integrate terrestrial and non-terrestrial networks (NTNs) including drones and Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites. New frequency bands, spanning from 7 GHz to 24 GHz, also known as Frequency Range FR3, have emerged as a 6G enabler. A critical gap for infrastructure and radio-resource sharing between terrestrial and NTN is the lack of data for assessment of the spatial, temporal and frequency features of the spectrum usage, interference, and exposure radiation footprints and the usage of these data in a realistic digital twin model that is able to mimic the radio environment and adapt accordingly. Important research domains in this context are: Design of modular monitoring nodes and integration in Radio Electric Observatory experimental testbed for terrestrial and aerial data collection o Experimental assessment and analysis of EM fields across relevant spectrum bands (FR3) for terrestrial, NTN, and telemetry services and subsequent EM map creation o Building and analysis of spectrum maps for detection of unusual EM traffic patterns o Human EM absorption assessment via FDTD using EM field data Detection and localization algorithms of dynamic users using wireless signal parameters and sensor fusion Generation of Digital Twin city model that is able to replicate realistic wireless propagation and exposure for dynamic users, building on open source tools and WAVES’s existing platforms, realizing closed-loop network planning based on real-time data WHAT WE ARE LOOKING FOR We are looking for enthusiastic candidates to perform research in the domains above in both national and international projects. Candidates with a Master’s degree in Electrical Engineering, Physics Engineering, Computer Sciences, or a related Master of Science degree qualify for this research job. WHAT WE CAN OFFER YOU We offer a pleasant work climate within a young dynamic team. We offer a full-time position as a doctoral fellow, consisting of an initial period of 12 months, which - after a positive evaluation, will be extended to a total maximum of 48 months. The fellowship amount is 100% of the net salary of an AAP member in equal family circumstances. The individual fellowship amount is determined by Team Personnel Administration based on family status and seniority. A grant that meets the conditions and criteria of the regulations for doctoral fellowships is considered free of personal income tax. Click here for more information about our salary scales All Ghent University staff members enjoy a number of benefits, such as a wide range of training and education opportunities, 36 days of holiday leave (on an annual basis for a full-time job) supplemented by annual fixed bridge days, bicycle allowance and eco vouchers. Click here for a complete overview of all the staff benefits. INTERESTED? If you are interested in this job offer, you can address your application letter and curr. vitae to: Isabelle Van der Elstraeten Ghent University/IMEC INTEC - WAVES iGent, Technologiepark-Zwijnaarde 126, B-9052 Gent, BELGIUM e-mail: Isabelle.VanderElstraeten@UGent.be Programmes For exchange students Lifelong learning View all Research Doctoral research Funding opportunities Science with and for society Core Facilities 21ZAP Initiative View all University life Housing facilities Restaurants Sport facilities Bicycle rent and repair Job Service for Students View all Tools Athena Library TimeEdit Email Ufora Oasis Research Explorer Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Feedback Privacy Disclaimer Cookie declaration Accessibility © 2026 Ghent University Back to top Naar boven